In this practical, we implement a simple pairwise non-gapped global alignment for all three pairwise combinations of sequences(human-mouse, human-random, mouse-random).
The first comparison is human-mouse. The second comparison is human-random. The third comparison is mouse-random.
There are 199 identical amino acids in the first comparison. The precentage identity of first comparison is 89.64%. The alignment score of the first comparison is 1086.
There are 12 identical amino acids in the second comparison. The precentage identity of second comparison is 5.41%.  The alignment score of the second comparison is -72
There are 13 identical amino acids in the third comparison. The precentage identity of third comparison is 5.86%. The alignment score of the third comparison is -59.
The BLOSUM62 score for a particular substitution is a log-odds score that provides a measure of the biological probability of a substitution relative to the chance probability of the substitution. For a substitution of amino acid i for amino acid j, the score S is expressed: 
Sij = log2 (qij / eij ). qij  stands for the observed possibility of the substitution of AA i and AA j in the block. eij = 2pi*pj and it stands for the expected possibility of the presence of the pair of AA i and AA j because of random factors. The BLOSUM62 score for the substitution can be either positive or negative. If the score is positive, it indicates that the substitution is homogenous. If the score is negative, it indicated that the substitution is inhomogenous. According to how the matrix is constructed, the lower the score is, the less likely the substitution is to appear and the less consistent the substitution is with the direction of evolution. The alignment score of the first comparison is high, indicating that human and mice may be homogenous. The alignment score of the second and third comparison is low, indicating that neither human nor mice are homogenous with the random sequence, which is consistent with the actual situation.
